Let's learn how to get CrateDB
running on your local machine
using Docker.
We'll start at the CrateDB
website and you'll want to click
this Get Started button in the
top right hand corner.
From there we want to choose a
self deployment option and click
Download.
Now we click Docker and this
takes us to the CrateDB docs
portal to the quick start page
for Docker. This is a quick
start,
it doesn't cover complexities
such as scaling your cluster or
persistence.
We have a separate guide for
that and that will be the
subject of a separate tutorial
video.
So for now, what we want to do
is make sure that Docker Desktop
is up and running.
If you don't have this, you can
download it from Docker.
And having ensured that that's
up and running, it's then a
simple case of copying this
command here that we've provided
in the guide and moving to the
terminal.
We can then paste that and when
we hit return, what will happen
is this is going to pull the
image from the Docker Hub and
then it's going to start a
container for it locally on our
machine.
We're also publishing a couple
of ports there, 5432 for
Postgres and 4200 for the create
admin interface.
So looks like things are up and
running, so output has finished.
What we're going to do now is go
to local host 4200 and have a
look at the CrateDB admin
interface.
So here we see what happens when
we visit local host 4200.
We can verify that CrateDB is up
and running and the health of
the database is good.
We have a single node database,
so it's a basic cluster of one
node.
And what we can also do here is
we can click here and view the
tables.
There aren't any tables yet
because it's a brand new
database and we can click here
to the console and we could
enter some SQL statements.
You've gone ahead and installed
CrateDB into your local
environment using Docker.
Congratulations.